[Previous Page - Dependencies](dependencies.html)

Currently, there is no standard for the exchange of discrete dental observations between dental providers. At the onset of this effort, the Department of Defense (DoD) and the American Dental Association (ADA) recognized the need for foundational dental data exchange between medical and dental practices and among dental practices. From the DoD’s perspective, the interest supported dental readiness, and the urgency for service members to receive necessary dental care before deployment. From the ADA’s perspective, there is a continued, industry-wide drive to promote and enhance standardized and structured dental data for seamless interoperability.  From the commercial perspective, Lantana Consulting Group and DentaQuest Partnership have collaborated together to develop this FHIR Dental Data Exchange Implementation Guide that contains parrallel content to the CDA Dental Data Exchange Implementation Guide.
Collectively, representatives from the DoD, ADA, and industry leaders convened the Dental Summary Exchange Project in early Summer 2019. The first project milestone was to identify key data concepts that could successfully transmit a dental referral between two dental systems, or between a medical and a dental system. While the work group focused on adding structure to unstructured dental data elements, the importance of maintaining compatibility with FHIR US Core Implementation Guide and Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) was considered.
Independently, the DentaQuest Partnership identified a need for communication and coordination of care between oral health providers and other health care disciplines. The inability of health information systems to meaningfully share data limits the healthcare system’s ability to address whole-person care across the lifespan and is detrimental to health outcomes. The electronic communication of clinically relevant medical or dental information when referring a patient to a dental provider, and the ability to close the referral loop, via a dental consult note to the referring healthcare providers is vital to improving care coordination and provider collaboration. DentaQuest Partnership joined this collaborative effort in the Fall of 2019 to merge their requirements into the development of a standard dental referral and dental consult note.  


[Next Page - Scope](scope.html)