[Previous Page - Scenario 1 Medical to Dental Referral](scenario_1_medical_to_dental_referral.html)

John Doe is a 21-year-old white male with mild hypertension who is a full time Analyst, recently graduated from college. He sees dentist Dr. Johnson on May 12th for an urgent evaluation based on a referral from Dr. Smith, his primary care physician. The receptionist at the Dentist office checks John in; he is a new patient, so she creates a new patient record in the system. She verifies his demographics and insurance information from the electronic referral received from Dr. Smith.
The dental hygienist calls John into the room; verifies his identity, obtains his medical/social history, reviews current medications and allergies from the referral note, and confirms reason for visit.
Dr. Johnson meets John in the room; reviews the risk assessment (risk assessment details, caries risk- general or perio), reviews the referral note from Dr. Smith, and reviews the rest of the information that was pre-populated in their internal dental EHR. Dr. Johnson then performs an oral evaluation and two PA radiographs. He identifies two areas of concern: patient has a significant, non-restorable caries lesion (decay) on the left lower back molar (tooth #18) with signs of infection. John also has early signs of decay on the right upper incisor (tooth #7) (Conditions). 
After Dr. Johnson describes these findings to John, John also reports inability to chew on left side due to pain and sensitivity, a condition that has increased in severity in the two days since his medical appointment.
Dr. Johnson recommends an extraction of the left lower molar (tooth #18) and restoration of the right upper lateral incisor (tooth #7) due to a caries lesion (decay). Dr. Johnson educates John on the benefits of complete examination, the importance of using a fluoride toothpaste when brushing twice daily with daily flossing, and of the need for bi-annual dental visits for examination and prophylaxis (cleaning). John agrees and Dr. Johnson mentions the receptionist will book a future appointment for the urgent, follow-up procedures. 
Before John leaves, the receptionist schedules an appointment for the extraction of tooth #18 on May 19th (one week after first visit), another appointment for restoration of tooth #7 on May 26th (one week after extraction), and schedules a follow-up appointment for a complete examination, including radiographs and prophylaxis on June 4th (one week after restoration of tooth #7). 
Dr. Johnson reviews John’s current medication list, notes an allergy to penicillin that is a counter-indication for his typical recommendation of amoxicillin, prescribes erythromycin 500 mg every six hours for the infection and recommends alternating over-the-counter ibuprofen and acetaminophen for pain. Also, he generates a Dental Referral Treatment Report back to Dr. Smith with a summary of John’s visit including the new prescription, planned procedures and future appointment dates.

TO DO: Insert table

[Next Page - Scenario 3 Dental to Dental (Endodontist) Referral](scenario_3_dental_to_dental_endodontist_referral.html)