[Previous Page - Scenario 2 Dental to Medical Consult Note](scenario_2_dental_to_medical_consult_note.html)

Sally is a 24-year-old female who contacts her dentist, Dr. Mathis, complaining about pain on her lower RQ. She mentioned the pain started two weeks ago and has worsened. She noticed sharp, stabbing pain provoked by drinking cold beverages in the past week and lingering pain with biting in the last 2 days. Sally is able to eat regular food but is only chewing on the left side. She is taking 400mg ibuprofen every 8 hours for pain.  
Sally has a history of hypertension and takes Lisinopril 10mg tablet once daily. She is also taking erythromycin 500mg every 6 hours for the infection, and additional ibuprofen for pain as needed. She is allergic to penicillin. 
Approximately one month ago, Sally reported a MOBD amalgam restoration (D2161 #30 MOBD) places in her right lower first molar (tooth #30) for a fractured tooth. MB cusp lost due to undermining by caries lesion (ADA Caries Classification System advances caries lesion). 
Intraoral Findings: When Dr. Mathis reviewed the right lower quadrant, tooth #30 was sensitive to percussion (lingering for 45 seconds) and too cold (sharp, stops when cold removed). No sensitivity to palpation, pain upon biting with relief upon opening. No evidence of new caries on distal; missing #28, replaced with endosteal (root form) implant with full crown tooth-colored restoration; #32 impacted with possible full boney impaction. One cm swelling present on buccal gingivae around #29 and #30 with sinus tract present #30B. Paraoral Findings: 2 small, mobile lymph nodes found in right submandibular area
Dr. Mathis performed the following tests: Electric pulp test positive for vitality #29 and 31 with #30 non-responsive. Cold test responsive #30, lingering 15 seconds.
Radiographic/Imaging: Two PA x-rays (URL to access?) (D0220 #29 area, D0230, #30 area)) of the affected teeth (29, 30, 31) were exposed in the office today. Panoramic radiograph (D0330) exposed. Radiographic results showed #32 full bony impaction, #28 endosteal (root form) implant with full crown restoration, and tooth #30 with small PA lesion mesial root. Radiographic caries lesion #29 distal caries lesion (ADA Caries Classification System moderate caries lesion). Other WNL.
Dr. Mathis noted the following diagnoses in the record: Primary: #30 pulpal necrosis and periapical pathosis with draining fistula, and clinical impression is that possible vital pulp remnants remain. Secondary: #30 possible cracked DB cusp; rule out cracked tooth. Clinical impression is that tooth is restorable, and #29 D caries lesion (ADA CCS moderate caries lesion).
Dr. Mathis sends referral to Endodontist for an evaluation of tooth #30 and endodontic therapy #30. Referral included medications prescribed, diagnosis, prognosis, treatment notes, images, and follow up recommendations.

TO DO: Insert table

[Next Page - Scenario 4 Dental (Endodontist) to Dental (General Dentist) Referral Result](scenario_4_dental_endodontist_to_dental_general_dentist_referral_result.html)